protocol 23 we are introducing  the
protocol 23 we are introducing the
hot archive bucket list where we will
actually
store  archived entries in a separate
store archived entries in a separate
database and what this allows us to do
is to store all live sorb on state  in
is to store all live sorb on state in
memory  as well as  store andan
memory as well as store andan
module caches in memory and we can do
this safely because the rent system is
St archival so  what we were talking
St archival so what we were talking
about today is an update that we made
since the last time we talked
particularly about
the way that we calculate the  what
the way that we calculate the what
today is called the target bucket list
size and so in protocol 22 whenever you
pay rent or write an entry to The Ledger
this fee is variable based on  the
this fee is variable based on the
current size of the bucket list which is
just the size of the  you know
just the size of the you know
Network's database on disk and
essentially we have a Target size  and
essentially we have a Target size and
if this  Target size is exceeded then
if this Target size is exceeded then
the cost of right and R bums  increase
the cost of right and R bums increase
very rapidly and essentially this allows
us to have a soft cap on the current
size of the bucket list or the the
Network database  from a fee
Network database from a fee
perspective so you can technically still
write but'll just be very expensive to
do so so people will stop writing and
then  eviction and styal will do a
then eviction and styal will do a
back pressure to overtime reduce the
size of the bucket list now the thing is
previous
to protocol 23 this was all measured
in database size now there were two
issues with this  the first one being
issues with this the first one being
that this is a sorond based fee and most
of the sorond state  or most of the
of the sorond state or most of the
core database wasn't soron state classic
State significantly dominated the size
and so we had this weird system where
even though sorban took up very little
space in the bucket list  it was being
space in the bucket list it was being
charged fees whenever classic entries
would make changes  so that's kind of
would make changes so that's kind of
issue number one  that you have
issue number one that you have
classic influencing the cost of sore
Bond State now the second issue is that
with protocol 23 we now have a bunch of
storage or all the sore Bond state that
we actually store in memory instead of
on disk and so it would our kind of goal
with this  setting is to make sure
with this setting is to make sure
that the protocol can cap the maximum
amount of memory  that Val to use it
amount of memory that Val to use it
at a given time and if we were to
continue to use just the disk based
metric  this  is no longer  able
metric this is no longer able
to actually cap the amount of memory
that you need to store now that we cach
everything in memory and so the update
to cap 66 is that we change the
bucketless target size byes to soron LIF
State Target size byes and so what this
means is that instead of using the
entire size of the database to calculate
rent fees and write fees we only use the
size of the live sorbon state that we
actually have to  store in memory
actually have to store in memory
now there's a couple of details here
particularly  I want to talk about
particularly I want to talk about
contract code and so when  storing So
contract code and so when storing So
the plan is to store all contract data
and all TTL entries in memory and then
to store instantiated contract code in
memory now contract data and contract
TTL  the thing that we store is the
TTL the thing that we store is the
same size as the entry on disk so for
instance like if you have a contract
data on diss that's  The Ledger entry
data on diss that's The Ledger entry
is you know 64 bytes then we store 64
bytes in memory so there's a one to one
ratio for data and TTL for contract code
this is not the case because of the
module instantiation cach changes or the
instantiated module cache we are not
actually storing just the contract code
bytes in memory but we're storing an
instantiated model and this model can be
up to 40 times the size of the on disk
wasm bites in the worst case and so what
we're doing instead is that  for
we're doing instead is that for
contract code in particular instead of
using the size of the contract code
entry  for  fees which is what we'
entry for fees which is what we'
been doing up to this point you're going
to instead use the size of the memory
given  by the instantiated contract
given by the instantiated contract
code module and so in the worst case
this is a 40 times increase but in the
average case this is only a 10 to 15 15
times increase over the size of the
contract code as it's calculated today
and so that's change number one is that
essentially because we need to account
for the in memory  size of state now
for the in memory size of state now
instead of the on disk size we need to
make this adjustment in the contract
code  size calculation now the other
code size calculation now the other
adjustment we're making is with r fees
so for rent fees essentially you are
renting  under you know protocol 23
renting under you know protocol 23
you are renting space in the  in
you are renting space in the in
memory cach of the network that's
essentially what rent is doing now and
so we  the rent fee will remain
so we the rent fee will remain
unchange how we still have like this
target  live State size and then the
target live State size and then the
rent fee  will you know increase very
rent fee will you know increase very
rapidly if the of Life State increases
this for right
fees doesn't really make sense to have
the right fee
a function of the current amount of Life
State because
we're to  using memory based bounds
we're to using memory based bounds
instead of dis based bounds in the Life
State  we a dynamic wrry doesn't make
State we a dynamic wrry doesn't make
sense and so what we're proposing is
that we still need to have a right fee
but you are not  it doesn't need to
but you are not it doesn't need to
be based on the current size of the
bucket list rather it just needs to be
based on the computational cost of doing
a right while you're applying the
transaction and so  we're making a
transaction and so we're making a
change that right fees are now a flat
fee  per BTE or per kilobyte rather
fee per BTE or per kilobyte rather
and so instead of having like this curve
the rent fees will still have that
curve but the right fees there'll be a
network config setting which is  fee
network config setting which is fee
per 1 kilobyte R and then  this will
per 1 kilobyte R and then this will
be  applied based on the size of the
be applied based on the size of the
entry you're writing and this will be
applied to both sorbon entries you write
as well as classic entries you write
so that's that's the primary changes
essentially we are changing the way we
calculate contract wasm size  respect
calculate contract wasm size respect
to fees rent fee is still variable based
on the amount of Life state right fees
are now
flapped  any questions or or concerns
Morgan's question about the the cheap
storage   we don't it's not so much
storage we don't it's not so much
that the storage is cheap and then non-e
it's that  before you hit the target
it's that before you hit the target
the storage is reasonable reasonably
priced and then past the target  the
priced and then past the target the
storage is like very very ridiculously
priced  so the idea is that you know
priced so the idea is that you know
we still even before you hit the target
we still charge fees and the intention
of this fees is to  dissuade people
of this fees is to dissuade people
who aren't using  like who aren't
who aren't using like who aren't
legitimate apps using the space  but
legitimate apps using the space but
essentially the reason that we have this
target is that we don't want a Dos angle
where an attacker could just write you
know gigabytes and gigabytes of state
that we all out store memory and then
oom kill them nodes and so I don't think
the distinction is cheap versus non-
cheap it's you know reasonable versus
like ridiculous pricing that we only you
know resort to in kind of the to protect
ourselves from malicious attack
see any numbers for the threshold
I think exact numbers are TBD  for
I think exact numbers are TBD for
reference  we're are so currently
reference we're are so currently
the we use bucket list total size and so
I think it's like 12 and a half gigs or
something like that the target something
in that range but because we're
switching to only  meter the life
switching to only meter the life
sorbon State it'll probably be something
on the scale of hundreds of megabytes
just because today the total sore on
state size is like 40 or 50 megabytes
so that still gives us you know lots of
growing room  but is a very small you
growing room but is a very small you
know value requirement as far as memory
but again you know we we still need to
think about these numbers a bit more as
it's kind of you know  on the range of
it's kind of you know on the range of
what we're looking
at yeah to add to that since vasm kind
of takes more space now than it used to
take in the database  yes we need to
take in the database yes we need to
re-evaluate this in memory State size
including the module cache and  I
including the module cache and I
don't think they have done this yet so
but the it is I don't think it will be
significantly bigger
than tens or hundreds of megabytes and
threshold to be set I think quite
High compared to that probably it can
easily be a few times higher  that you
easily be a few times higher that you
know  we didn't get that much dat in a
know we didn't get that much dat in a
year I don't think  like if you said
year I don't think like if you said
it to 2x 3x of the current state  I
it to 2x 3x of the current state I
don't think we'll run out of space
anytime
soon yeah and  to just to make it
soon yeah and to just to make it
clear  for for Morgan's question like
clear for for Morgan's question like
we like the purpose of these limits is
not to you know limit good users  so
not to you know limit good users so
you know if we see a Dap that has 100K
daily activ users I mean that's not
going to happen overnight there's going
to be a ramp up but we would definitely
probably you know  introduce the slip
probably you know introduce the slip
SL SLP to raise those limit so the
intention is not to you know reduce
actual  good good usage of network
yeah and I guess  Nico pointed out a
yeah and I guess Nico pointed out a
good point that I forgot to mention is
that because we are switching from on
disk metering of contract code to in
memory metering  the size  of the
memory metering the size of the
current instantiation model is protocol
dependent  and so for instance if in
dependent and so for instance if in
the future we change to a  like a g
the future we change to a like a g
instead of interpreter then the size of
the instantiated model will increase
and so I didn't mention this but well
for fees  we are for the rent fee
for fees we are for the rent fee
in particular we are using the
inmemory size  of the contract code
inmemory size of the contract code
but for limits and for the right fee we
using the on disk size  and we have to
using the on disk size and we have to
do this because for instance like we
have like a a maximum contract size
config setting and if you can assume
that you know a contract today  has
that you know a contract today has
the maximum size we wouldn't want want
to break that contract in a future
protocol upgrade if the inmemory size
just happen to change and so yeah I
think that's that's a good point I
forgot to to mention is that  only the
forgot to to mention is that only the
rent fee is dependent on the  contract
rent fee is dependent on the contract
in memory size  and that means that
in memory size and that means that
like a and that's and the target sorond
life State size is also calculated using
the inmemory size of contract code
but as far as write fees and
transaction WR limits and contract code
size limits those are still determined
by the wasum and we have to do that
because only the actual on disk you know
wasm size is consistent protocol to
protocol actually so my comment was
actually a little bit different like
because I had a chat with grer about
this and it sounds like the current  P
this and it sounds like the current P
request we have
for cap 65 is actually caching per host
basically so  like if you have like
basically so like if you have like
two host  like core can be configured
two host like core can be configured
right with multiple  host to support
right with multiple host to support
multiple protocol versions and right now
we keep in
memory  the version of the WM
memory the version of the WM
basically like the the the the
pre-processed version  per host so it
pre-processed version per host so it
it gets basically like if you have like
two H in memory is going to have two
versions of the wesm cache per
contract  and that's kind of a to make
contract and that's kind of a to make
it easier
to to to reason about but at the same
time that means that the overhead in
memory is actually dependent on how core
is is
compiled yeah I think this is I agree
there something to look out for but I
think this is primarily an
implementation detail at this point
because I think in the
yeah no it's totally is it's just like
that's why I said there needs to be an
SLP to to kind of discuss that because
the your memory limit
basically  that you you pick is has to
basically that you you pick is has to
take into account the fact that you have
basically a overhead of two or
3x  for you know for the resident
3x for you know for the resident
wiom  that maybe is not as trivial as
wiom that maybe is not as trivial as
you know if you look at calibration
while like if you're asking one host how
much memory you know are you using right
now that's actually not the truth you
you need to  to basically  lie
you need to to basically lie
through the through the network settings
that you know you actually are are going
to count  was them in memory let's say
to count was them in memory let's say
with a 3X you know a multiplier on top
of what's actually using per per
host does that make sense it's basically
the yeah the calibration
settings yeah yeah I think I think
longterm like a like so longterm when we
actually have like large amounts of
States say like in the gigabytes then I
think we can probably avoid this issue
by doing something clever like you know
like if we are armed for an upgrade then
we can like  you know like do the
we can like you know like do the
compiling for the new the new protocol
version in the background laely and then
serialize it such that we don't have
like the double memory overhead but but
I agree as like as far as like
short-term and medium-term plan goes I
mean I think like the state size is
still small enough that like we can set
limits like with these assumptions it'
be
fine but yeah I agree that we should we
should have these  these  this like
should have these these this like
3x factor in
mind cool I guess if we don't have any
other questions or comments about this
we can  I'll hand it off to the next
we can I'll hand it off to the next
cap right thanks Garen for presenting
this and  yes the next thing we have
this and yes the next thing we have
on our agenda today is  cap 6 to7 and
on our agenda today is cap 6 to7 and
specifically the issues  that concern
specifically the issues that concern
handling of transaction memers and
maxed  accounts in the  event  not
maxed accounts in the event not
sure if cap is even an appropriate link
to share right now because most of
the  revant stuff is  captured  in
the revant stuff is captured in
the
discussions to the cap  and  I think
discussions to the cap and I think
the the point of contention during the
previous meeting was how exactly can we
enable maxed accounts in soran and after
spiking a few
options considering the fact that it is
likely for pretty much any custom token
to be interested in being listed in
centralized exchanges and as being
compatible with custo Vols that
centralized exchange may use for
multiplexing
it seems like this is something that
most of the tokens will want will want
and I think this is one of the key
requirements that kind of made  the
requirements that kind of made the
whole discussion pretty  hard to
whole discussion pretty hard to
converge on  but since  kind of came
converge on but since kind of came
to an agreement that this is probably a
reasonable feature to have and
contracts will need to deal with Max
addresses
anyways  the current preference is to
anyways the current preference is to
go with an option of add in  simulus
go with an option of add in simulus
support of Max addresses to the SDK and
to the environment and what  tokens
to the environment and what tokens
extend well not extend but update the
transfer function interface to be able
to accept Mark addresses  I don't know
to accept Mark addresses I don't know
you do want to add something we di into
details you asked to
speak yeah I think  maybe it's just
speak yeah I think maybe it's just
worth calling out for people who
listening of the conversation last week
I think an assumption we were making to
be really clear it was an assumption
that this needed to be an
extension  and I think you know to has
extension and I think you know to has
sort of pointed out that it's safe to
assume that pretty much every token
would be interested in being listed in
an exchange you know if if that was if
that was to happen  and so there's
that was to happen and so there's
little reason to make this an extension
where it's sort of targeting a very
small number of tokens  like really
small number of tokens like really
just sort of all tokens should should be
able to handle the case where they're
given a Max address or a
memo  and so much of the complexity I
memo and so much of the complexity I
think in some of the spikes sort of
disappears once we don't try to make
this an
extension right so  to summarize like
extension right so to summarize like
what we are currently going to do with a
protocol is that  we will add a new
protocol is that we will add a new
object type to soran  specifically for
object type to soran specifically for
handling maxed addresses
max accounts currently Max accounts
currently but I'm actually not sure if
you want to do contracts or not but we
could we wanted to and the interesting
thing about it is that since it's in the
protocol  well the primary reason for
protocol well the primary reason for
why we are doing this work is  for the
why we are doing this work is for the
tokens to be able to support this
basically any
protocol  will be able to use them if
protocol will be able to use them if
they want to so if  custodial
they want to so if custodial
Solutions are necessary some other
protocols basically the solutions for
single address  that can have multiple
single address that can have multiple
sub virtual sub accounts  they will be
sub virtual sub accounts they will be
able to implement this and I think this
is one of the benefits of this it hasn't
been discussed  before  even though
been discussed before even though
like we don't have limited obvious use
case  but know folks may come up with
case but know folks may come up with
something I definitely recall having
recall seen some discussions here on
Discord  regarding  virtual accounts
Discord regarding virtual accounts
for multiplexing support
so yeah we we had this new new object
type and also at the SDK level we make
it so  the regular address type and
it so the regular address type and
this new Multiplex address type are
wrapped in the same SDK type which means
that  for example if  contract
that for example if contract
just operates on the addresses and it
doesn't know exit your token started
except in multiplexed addresses for the
transfer  as will break  so for
transfer as will break so for
example if contract a calls a token
contract  and passes a regular address
contract and passes a regular address
non Max address to it  things will
non Max address to it things will
keep working even the token contract
updates to this new proposed  feature
updates to this new proposed feature
which is to allow  transfers to
which is to allow transfers to
have multiplexed destinations and
sources  and this is what what has
sources and this is what what has
been spiked and  this seems to kind of
been spiked and this seems to kind of
work and in terms of complexity on the
token side it doesn't seem like there is
too much it's  few additional lines of
too much it's few additional lines of
code to convert from multiple addresses
back to  normal addresses that can do
back to normal addresses that can do
all the interesting things that
addresses can
do  that's kind of a hell level thing
do that's kind of a hell level thing
I am not sure if  they need to go
I am not sure if they need to go
too deep into details right now I guess
the conclusion from the discussions for
is really that  seems like we have a
is really that seems like we have a
way of making this work in a non
disruption non-disruptive fashion
meaning that  the existing contracts
meaning that the existing contracts
will not be
broken and it is also possible for the
clients to discover if a contract
reports multiplexed addresses at all or
not  which may be relevant in some
not which may be relevant in some
context right so I think this part is
more or less clear  part is still
more or less clear part is still
unclear and I wanted to talk about a bit
more is  how exactly are we going to
more is how exactly are we going to
represent the multiplex destinations and
the events and the option of just
putting them into topic is problematic
because it would break  index if they
because it would break index if they
don't do anything special this Multiplex
addresses break in a sense that they
will have too many virtual destinations
that they really shouldn't be caring
about  so in the link I posted
about so in the link I posted
yeah thanks Le for posting other
discussions  yeah in the discussion
discussions yeah in the discussion
the da post ly has listed different
approaches
to actually how to handle the events
with mlex
destinations and
I think we haven't reached the full
agreement on this but again it seems
like from my own preference and I see
Alex has commented on
this
seems like what we could do is  you
seems like what we could do is you
could just
converge  yeah I say want to talk but
converge yeah I say want to talk but
I guess the current preference is to
converge all the possible memo that we
currently have  support in the
currently have support in the
transaction converge everything into the
single Multiplex address  data
single Multiplex address data
structure  so that for the classic
structure so that for the classic
transactions you will be able to
generate Multiplex destination based on
the transaction memo even of this
transaction mem is non ID and for s b
use cases  you only support ID MERS to
use cases you only support ID MERS to
kind of ruce the potential amount of
confusion I know Alex if you want
to okay Alex doesn't want to talk  I
to okay Alex doesn't want to talk I
don't know if you want
to yeah no I I just you know my comment
was basically  my preference  just
was basically my preference just
as one point of view on like which one
we should use  I guess I do have a
we should use I guess I do have a
question now thinking about it like
would this cause any breakage to how
people parse M addresses if we were to
expand M addresses to actually cover all
types of
memos well it depends on where exactly
we put it  in the sketch I've posted
we put it in the sketch I've posted
above the above in the same discussion
I'm actually only extending SC
address
type  which means that classic Max
type which means that classic Max
account data structure will stay as is
and the reason to keep it as is is that
it's kind of over the place in the
protocol like a lot of transactions have
maxed accounts as  sources or
maxed accounts as sources or
destinations and  yes there is really
destinations and yes there is really
no good reason to kind of
retroactively Plum all this memos
into the classic Max account type and
yeah this m will just remain in address
and it will be just yet another special
SC address  as the remainder of with
SC address as the remainder of with
cap 67 we introduced like chable balance
address and liquidity po C address and
both can only appear in the context of
this  unified events sources of or
this unified events sources of or
destinations of payments and this is
basically the Third special address kind
that only appears in unified events
coming from classic  I cannot say this
coming from classic I cannot say this
will definitely not cause any breakage
because well we are kind of in order to
achieve this we need to  not well kind
achieve this we need to not well kind
of break right the token events  by
of break right the token events by
converting the data field from a single
integer to a map there is definitely
this breakage and you know if someone
there something to address  they may
there something to address they may
or may not be broken so PR definitely
some cost to it but it's not really
specific to this proposal of  adding
specific to this proposal of adding
this
maxed address with memo whatever new
type because we kind of already have
have this issue
so yeah  I hope the breaker scope
so yeah I hope the breaker scope
is really minimal especially if like we
support this iny libraries and whoever
is using string key library to just
convert to and from a c address they
will just need to update the version and
hopefully everything just works
yeah George you turn stage yeah yeah
I just wanted to add that  yeah I 100%
I just wanted to add that yeah I 100%
agree that we should minimize or we
should try not to make any changes to
the actual mxed account xdr address or
like the M string key format because
there's deep assumptions in a lot of
places  Downstream both in platform
places Downstream both in platform
products and Beyond in the ecosystem
about the M string key specifically
having the integer as the ID so  yeah
having the integer as the ID so yeah
if we can isolate that to SC address
that sounds that sounds
great right that is option four right or
option yeah four right
yeah or it's it's more like it's not
option three I think option three is the
only one that modifies the  string
only one that modifies the string
key yeah I think option two is the
closest yeah like using M wherever
possible but not trying to shoehorn text
and hash into an M address as long as
we're talking about the stry
representation not some other
representation
yes yeah I think that's right  yeah I
yes yeah I think that's right yeah I
understand that concern I I I I
personally when I look at these four
options and I think there's more than
these four options so I think you know
if people have other ideas like please
post them to this thread  these are
post them to this thread these are
just the first four that came to Wine
the attractive thing about the first
option and the third option is
that it's very consistent with what you
see going into a
transaction  for I think for
transaction for I think for
exchangers at least or for legacy users
so if somebody puts in a memo that's a
string it comes out as being labeled
this is the here's the string in in
exact like it looks exactly the same so
if somebody's using developer tooling
they see they decode a transaction they
see this transaction had a particular
memo they decode the event they can see
the memo right there like they look
exactly the same  and then the same
exactly the same and then the same
thing if you know if the mammo is an
integer it looks exactly the same  and
integer it looks exactly the same and
because we need to decode the M into a g
for the topics I don't think it's such a
stretch for option one to to like break
it apart and for even in the MX case the
integer to come out at least there's
some consistency there  the concern I
some consistency there the concern I
have with the two case  is that
have with the two case is that
because  it's sort of a little bit
because it's sort of a little bit
less consistent
you can create a transaction with a Max
address and you get an m on the other
side which makes a lot of sense  but
side which makes a lot of sense but
then you create a transaction with a g
in a memo and some memos result in an m
and some memos don't result in an
m so yeah this might just
be maybe this is an edge case we
shouldn't worry too much about but just
that inconsistency seems surprising to
me I think it will be surprising to
somebody
just to clarify real quick isn't it
normally the case that when people use
the ID for
differentiation on  like Omni bus or
differentiation on like Omni bus or
custodial accounts that they would use
the ID form like text and hash don't
seem like they would apply necessarily
there so it might be like an edge case
that  you know they're attaching it as
that you know they're attaching it as
a piece of text that is supposed to like
display something so putting that into a
memo would be  it's not intended to
memo would be it's not intended to
differentiate yeah we should I mean we
should use we should use the big query
data set just to validate  just to
data set just to validate just to
make sure we got these numbers exactly
right but when I've looked at this in
the past I have seen plenty of text
usage actually  but a lot of the text
usage actually but a lot of the text
usages exchanges  placing numbers into
usages exchanges placing numbers into
text form and then using the text the
memo text
I see so kind of a misuse of the text
form yeah I think Jake has just
commented on that I think just our
comments about what most exchanges are
doing we just need to validate that
because I know like one exchange that
actually does use MOX counts  well
actually does use MOX counts well
they support both moxed and non-med for
the non-med they use text and then for
the moxed they're obviously using the ID
which is interesting
I think one of the advantages of option
three which
modifies the M string key format so that
it can contain more
information
is that it sort of
pushes everything towards that MOX
address format  I I don't know if that
address format I I don't know if that
would really change adoption of it
probably
not  but it does create like a single
not but it does create like a single
unified View and the data that comes out
the other end I'd be interested in Simon
if he's here on like you know what the
perspective is from like a data consumer
perspective like a future data consumer
perspective assuming that the network
will always have more users tomorrow
than it does today  yeah like which of
than it does today yeah like which of
these approaches makes the most sense
for future users and future
consumers hello  I would actually say
consumers hello I would actually say
for I guess from like a big data or like
olab perspective I don't think any of
these would cause a problem for
scalability
yeah I'm not sure if that's helpful or
not but I think  the amount of users
not but I think the amount of users
that  unless it gets into I guess like
that unless it gets into I guess like
the billions of something range which
I guess is the like possible won't be
an issue for like the next decade or so
I don't think this would be a problem
from like an olap perspective
what about from the perspective of your
a data engineer trying to represent this
data and so you're looking at a lot of
the data and a lot of the data has just
a single value for this destination and
then in some cases oh this value is
actually a combination of multiple
fields or or something like that does
that  make it more or less difficult
that make it more or less difficult
when integrating into other systems or
would that be like a concern or
something that could be like a foot
gun  like something that'd be easy to
gun like something that'd be easy to
make a mistake
with I think for our use case  I don't
with I think for our use case I don't
really have a concern with that I think
the concern would be more for whoever is
ingesting from like RPC or creating like
some Horizon like end
point so I don't know if I'm the best to
speak on that
yeah from from Horizon so from Horizon's
perspective because we already support M
addresses in their current
form  it would be like the format
form it would be like the format
itself would break right because you
would need a way to distinguish what
kind of memo it is now and so anybody
who's relying on the current string key
format would know longer be open be able
to use the same string key format right
any existing you know queries or
lookups or parsing routines  anyone
lookups or parsing routines anyone
who's trying to find stuff in Hubble
right they would have to reformulate
their M address as far as I understand
it I mean it depends on how it gets
formatted in the xdr I guess or how the
shinky definition defines it but  yeah
shinky definition defines it but yeah
it seems like this would  cause a lot
it seems like this would cause a lot
of pain for Downstream if we extended it
to be more than just strictly integer
IDs I think it can when I had to look at
I I did a quick Spike having a look at
what would need a change about the M
string key and it's 100% extendable
without breaking existing string keys so
without confusion so like existing
string Keys
would  continue to decode to the exact
would continue to decode to the exact
same value and for any existing
decoder  that follows the back any new
decoder that follows the back any new
string key wouldn't overlap with any
existing string key so that every new
string key that didn't follow a
different format would definitely fail
like say like when I say new I mean
like the text the return and the hash
typ of MOT types so I think we
definitely could do that but  without
definitely could do that but without
breaking existing systems
but you know whether that's the right
way still to do that is another question
you know based
on
there will be systems that probably
won't upgrade to the new format and they
might assume that there's nothing to
change and then they become broken yeah
I don't know I'm interested to hear like
Nico you were just talking about
exchangers will crack open the M address
for case three so that's strictly worse
as a use case  could you unpack
as a use case could you unpack
that a little bit yeah I mean it's
basically like you know in in the in
their inje system what they are looking
at is deposits to their hot
wallet and then they and then the memo
that's how they you know ingest the
data  like I don't
data like I don't
see like why they would want to
basically track like M addresses as the
kind of the the deposit key
for for you know separate from the hot
wet
basically  yeah that's a good point
basically yeah that's a good point
also for for exchanges that use Define
those identifiers like per customer too
like you're you are really interested
in that identifier whether it be an ID
or a string  I I
or a string I I
think I think what I hear you saying is
exchangers actually don't really care
about the M address after that import
other than using it as an input so that
users can just enter that one value when
they're ingesting syst doesn't really
am I guess you can still argue that
as a someone who's we're basically
deciding what is going to be P published
as an event but you can always  go
as an event but you can always go
back and forth between the M or the
address plus memo right and you can
abtract that away in the SDK or even
like as an indexer was actually
ingesting this data and converting and
serving at however you want right so
does it really matter I I think the
point about breakage though is very
important right CU I feel like you first
said it wouldn't cause any breakage but
for anyone  who is parsing currently M
for anyone who is parsing currently M
current M addresses and they don't
upgrade their implementation to the new
thing if they see an address that
is using the extended version they would
probably break
right yeah in that in that case they're
not going to be able to decode it
because it's it'll be a different
format yeah I I think it's really some
confusion because I think we might be
reading this proposals
differently I do not think any proposal
assumes didn't shink keiss anywhere in
the
events yeah that's actually exactly what
I was about to ask like what when we say
from M and to M right in the in the
transfer topic from G and 2G is an
address yes basically basically in my
mind from G2 g means that from SC
address account
ed25 whatever to C address account and
from M to m means address maxed account
which I have introduced in my Spike rate
and address Max account variant has the
max account XD payload U which is
existing Max account which it doesn't
even have to to be frankly it could be
just you know Ed plus ID  there is no
just you know Ed plus ID there is no
additional level of neration
and the same goes for this new
memo account  from z x j point it can
memo account from z x j point it can
be just  a variant of a c address that
be just a variant of a c address that
contains  G  well
contains G well
ed25  key and
ed25 key and
memo  which is just the transaction
memo which is just the transaction
memo tapee for example  so this key
memo tapee for example so this key
discussion is rather like how how do we
like like if we want to convert to
string key or not but you know the event
structure does not change I think I
think well I think there is an impact
here so yes string keys are not part of
the protocol and they're not part of the
xdr but they are part of the developer
experience and  how we structure this
experience and how we structure this
will impact it to a degree so  you
will impact it to a degree so you
know we you I agree that you know we can
bundle these two pieces of information
the address the actual address and the
the memo separately or together in
different structures the same structures
but we do need to make a decision in
the event if it's a top like if it's if
if this event the data section is going
to become a map  is one of these
to become a map is one of these
fields going to be something that we
expect to be a single unit or we going
to expect them to be separate units and
so and that affects how it's going to
render in things like the developer
Tooling in the RPC Json API  because
Tooling in the RPC Json API because
that's yeah like that's where we
actually do map things to string keys
and they either map or they don't map
well if if we make them like separate
fields in the data nothing that we built
today for developer tooling is going to
be able to map those things to a string
key we want them to be a string key if
we put them in a single field then we
have that option  but that may or may
have that option but that may or may
not be a good idea and we're also
talking about redundant data too so does
it you know if the G is in the topic
does it really make sense to spend
another 32 bytes and actually keep that
g in the data as well that's unclear to
me right yeah yeah I just want to point
out that like basically for the
exchanges I don't think any option is
specifically like bad or inefficient
because like still have a
somewhere in the event  so they you
somewhere in the event so they you
never need to like par this out of
strink key  as for the overhead yeah I
strink key as for the overhead yeah I
think it's a
valid concern
yeah I think I think like number one
I think niik sort of pointed out that
that was an option that was is like low
risk of doing the wrong thing with
like option one is so simple you know
that everything's pulled apart you've
got everything in the event the really
only downside of option one where
everything's broken apart is the
developer experience isn't quite the
same so when you're looking at a human
readable version of an event you're
going to see this memo and a g address
you're not going to see that M that was
in the original  but this already
in the original but this already
happens everywhere you know when you go
to  stella. expert or other explorers
to stella. expert or other explorers
and you drop in an M address it
immediately drops you into a page about
the G address so I I don't actually
think we need to have complete
consistency with madress goes in madress
comes out
yeah yeah I guess I just generally
say I'm generally for option one I think
it's simple the messages
smaller
yeah
I yeah I think this may be fine and also
like for the consistency part like at
least like if you can have M addresses
in the contract invocations  things
in the contract invocations things
are immediately much less confusion
because you know if you wanted to check
your
transaction  like there is a very good
transaction like there is a very good
chance that block Explorer will
correctly say that you actually have
performed the transfer to an M address
and you know not some pair which was my
concern for for the input but for the
events I agree it may be not as
important and events are generally much
less human reable so maybe yeah it's not
worth to optimize for exactly the same
range
as rendering as we would have expected
from the signature of the function
so
yeah I think option one is probably
fine okay so it sounds like we're
leaning towards option one
no one's opposed to
that if so we can we can move on to
the next
topic yeah I'm good all right  the
topic yeah I'm good all right the
next  thing I think we should discuss
next thing I think we should discuss
is what to do about the TX memo if we
should admit that as a separate event
because you know for example if you're
replaying if if an exchange is replaying
using Classic Events and someone sent a
you know a payment to
coinbase with TX memo and the M  and a
coinbase with TX memo and the M and a
m account we don't have space in the in
the current events as there as they
defined  to include both like both the
defined to include both like both the
txl and the MX information so an option
that Dio mentioned is we could just emit
a system event similar to how we cap 67
emits a fee event and that event will
just contain the  the the TX memo if
just contain the the the TX memo if
one existed
anyone have any thoughts on
that I mean I you're saying sorry sorry
like so you're saying like you would not
evit emit a m or whatever like know this
destination
memo event if you have a transaction
memo no so when I'm saying is  like on
memo no so when I'm saying is like on
a payment if you use a MOX account you
will have a des station memo in the
transfer event right
but if that transaction also had a TX
memo set what do you do yeah but but
first of all like I'd like to understand
what happens if you only have a
transaction memo and not a Max
destination yeah so the cap currently
that says that you there's like an order
of Precedence so you would pull the TX
memo and put it into the event but if
you emitted the TX
memo  separately it would probably
memo separately it would probably
make sense to ignore ignore that order
of Precedence and have the consumer pull
the information that they want right no
that's mistake yeah because we saw with
Horizon right like the this model where
you let clients kind of
decide  we I think this is the
decide we I think this is the
opportunity to
actually fully specify this precedence
order so that you don't have
ambiguity right because  I'm pretty
ambiguity right because I'm pretty
sure I mean I don't know I don't want to
put you know exchanges in in you know in
trouble but I I imagine that the
This president's order is not
actually respected because it's actually
fairly complicated no what well let's
let's I step back for a second is is the
ability to re for an exchange to replay
from Genesis using events a requirement
because if it is then you you can't make
assumptions about if they care like you
know certain exchanges May care about
the TX Momo and some may care about the
M information
right I think this is a new event stream
so we get to do what makes sense if  I
so we get to do what makes sense if I
I think yes you don't want to lose the
information that there was a TX memo
yeah at the same time I do think that
the transfer events should contain the
you know what we think is the  I
you know what we think is the I
mean as as per specific as per the
specification of transfer
events what we believe is the  the
events what we believe is the the
right  you know destination memo in
right you know destination memo in
this case
yeah and I think on that point it
doesn't I'm not actually sure if reap
like we can't we change this this is a
new event Stream So the replay can use
the new
semantics while the previous versions of
meta and the transactions still describe
the old
semantics yeah the the events can  you
semantics yeah the the events can you
know do whatever we can be specified
however we want them to be maybe I
wasn't clear like like what I was
initially saying is that the the TX memo
would be in this new event and the
transfer event would only have any it
only have MOX account information and
and I think ni you're saying that in
some some cases we should  push the TX
some some cases we should push the TX
memo into the into the transfer event as
well I think for yeah like if we
are going forward like it's more like
yeah what do we want the those events to
look like for Classic Events I think we
want them to properly represent the
destination and  therefore you need to
destination and therefore you need to
see the transfer event with the proper
destination plus memo like you know like
option one let's say
right even if the memo is actually at
the trans has been specified at the
transac only at the transaction
layer okay so if the if the account
wasn't moxed then for the  the memo
wasn't moxed then for the the memo
into the transfer  event and
into the transfer event and
the M basically
indistinguishable if you have like only
the transaction level memo only the
destination  you know  M account on
destination you know M account on
either transaction or operation right
those three cases should all end up with
the right U you know transfer event with
the added memo information as far as
like the you know do we need a an event
for the memo I don't know what the use
cases for that are so
yeah like like
people you can already get that by  by
people you can already get that by by
pulling the transaction itself and you
know cracking it open basically if you
want if you really
that but  I agree that that you can do
that but I agree that that you can do
that
but like didn't didn't we want
consumers to not have to do
that I guess I guess it depends on if
that's a requirement or not we care
about in the context of if I think the
context of the cap was
transfers in the context of transfers
this sound seems to be out of
scope okay
sorry I'm I'm not totally tracking with
with what we've just
said so  Nico is saying that the that
said so Nico is saying that the that
that the emitting an event purely for
the TX memo like a separate event is out
of scope in in terms in in the context
of transfers I'm not sure about this spe
I'm specifically thinking about the the
replay case  for exchanges
replay case for exchanges
cuz I you know if you what what what
is what happens if you have a
transaction of the TX memo and MX MX
destination account  because without
destination account because without
the TX memo event you can only show one
right but in that case the thing is that
if people have like complex logic they
will have to actually derive it from the
transaction they have to know exactly
okay did we which combination of things
right  where they into I think that's
right where they into I think that's
why I'm saying like the the transaction
memo is not sufficient if you if you're
get if you're starting to pull that
thread like you have to do transaction
memo two second on the transac I mean
destination oh actually no this one I
guess the override can only happen on
the two so it there's only one place but
if it's the
source  that's where you have like the
source that's where you have like the
transaction Source or the operation
Source right that are on yeah yeah the
source does make this more
complicated this is well I'm actually
not sure if the source makes it though
much more complicated does it isn't
isn't the complexity that an exchange
might be reading the TX memo today and
actually ignoring the M the MOX address
and just using the G part of the max
address isn't that the complex part yeah
well so that's the that's scenario that
I like this event might help you solve
maybe right because I'm sure that I'm
guessing that happens today like if I
send a  an a payment to coinbase with
send a an a payment to coinbase with
the MOX account set and a TX memo like
they if they they probably just I'm
guessing they treat it as if the account
wasn't mxed
right no that's why we don't know
because it's  yeah under
specified okay I guess for this we'll
like to me that yeah like the we this
discussion is more like I I see the
historical stuff as more like as a best
effort because really like exchanges in
particular are they really I mean do you
really want people to to be reinges
you know from Genesis or something like
they already ingested already
reconcile all these data in their back
end yeah that's a good
point
okay there's also the additional
ambiguity of if someone's sending to a m
address and has a memo at the
transaction level you shouldn't
necessarily assume that that transaction
memo is a specification of a user on the
destination side right it could just be
some free text just for the purposes of
describing the
transaction yeah the point of this event
was just to you know show all the
information and have the consumers deal
with it  but it sounds like we we we
with it but it sounds like we we we
don't need to deal with this right now
also we're out of time the last thing
we were going to discuss we we can maybe
do this offline is that we don't we no
longer need cap 64
but  I don't know Deo if you want
but I don't know Deo if you want
to say anything about that yeah I guess
the consensus of the discussions has
been that yeah cap 64 is not needed and
yeah this is just an official
announcement that we Are CL on it
because MOS will be implemented
differently  yeah that's
it all right then  we're out of time
it all right then we're out of time
for today  thank thank you for joining
for today thank thank you for joining
and thanks everyone for participating